Boeing, Justice Department reach deal to avoid prosecution over deadly 737 Max crashes
IE 11 is not supported. For an optimal experience visit our site on another browser.
Skip to Content
NBC News Logo
Politics
U.S. News
Local
New York
Los Angeles
Chicago
Dallas-Fort Worth
Philadelphia
Washington, D.C.
Boston
Bay Area
South Florida
San Diego
Connecticut
World
Sports
Business
Health
Memorial Day Sales
Tipline
Science
Culture & Trends
Share & Save —
My News
Manage Profile
Email Preferences
Sign Out
Search
Search
Profile
My News
Sign Out
Sign In
Create your free profile
Sections
U.S. News
Politics
World
Business
Sports
Investigations
Culture & Trends
Health
Science
Tech
Weather
Video Features
Photos
NBC Select
NBC Asian America
NBC BLK
NBC Latino
NBC OUT
Local
New York
Los Angeles
Chicago
Dallas-Fort Worth
Philadelphia
Washington, D.C.
Boston
Bay Area
South Florida
San Diego
Connecticut
tv
Today
Nightly News
MSNBC
Meet the Press
Dateline
Featured
NBC News Now
Nightly Films
Stay Tuned
Special Features
Newsletters
Podcasts
Listen Now
More From NBC
CNBC
NBC.COM
NBCU Academy
Peacock
NEXT STEPS FOR VETS
NBC News Site Map
Help
Follow NBC News
news Alerts
There are no new alerts at this time
Search
Search
Facebook
Twitter
Email
SMS
Print
Whatsapp
Reddit
Pocket
Flipboard
Pinterest
Linkedin
Latest Stories
Politics
U.S. News
World
Sports
Business
Health
Memorial Day Sales
Tipline
Science
Culture & Trends
Trending topics
Harvard
Apple tariffs
Billy Joel
Boeing
D.C. shooting victims
Kim Kardashian trial
Sheinelle Jones
U.S. news
Boeing, Justice Department reach deal to avoid prosecution over deadly 737 Max crashes
Victims’ family members have repeatedly called for more accountability and for Boeing officials to stand trial over the crashes.
Get more news
Live
on
May 23, 2025, 4:46 PM EDT
/
Source
:
CNBC
By
Leslie Josephs, CNBC
The U.S. Justice Department said Friday that it has
reached a deal with Boeing t
hat will allow the aircraft maker to avoid prosecution over two crashes of its
737 Max
planes that killed 346 people.
The non-prosecution
agreement
would allow Boeing, a major military contractor and top U.S.
exporter
, to avoid being labeled a felon. The decision means Boeing won’t face trial as scheduled next month, as crash victims’ family members have urged for years.
The Department of Justice met with crash victims’ family members last week to discuss the potential deal.
Boeing 737 MAX airplanes parked on the tarmac at the Boeing Factory in Renton, Wash., on March 21, 2019.
Lindsey Wasson / Reuters file
In a court filing Friday the DOJ said it “is the Government’s judgment that the Agreement is a fair and just resolution that serves the public interest.”
The agreement “guarantees further accountability and substantial benefits from Boeing immediately, while avoiding the uncertainty and litigation risk presented by proceeding to trial.”
The DOJ said it intends to file a motion to dismiss the case once the “agreement in principle” is finalized, by no later than the end of next week.
Under the agreement, Boeing will have to “pay or invest” more than $1.1 billion, the DOJ said in its filing in federal court in Texas on Friday. That amount includes a $487.2 million criminal fine, though $243.6 million it already paid in an earlier agreement would be credited. It also includes $444.5 million for a new fund for crash victims, and $445 million more on compliance, safety and quality programs.
Boeing declined to comment.
The company has been trying for years to put the two crashes of its best-selling Max planes — a
Lion Air flight
in October 2018 and an
Ethiopian Airlines flight
less than five months later — behind it. The Maxes were
grounded
worldwide for nearly two years after the second crash, a pause that gave rival Airbus a head start in recovering from the Covid pandemic.
But families of the crash victims have criticized previous agreements as sweetheart deals for Boeing, called for more accountability from the company and said its executives should stand trial. In 2022, a former chief technical pilot for Boeing was
acquitted
on fraud charges tied to the Max’s development.
Several of the victims’ family members issued a statement through their lawyer shortly after the court filing was released criticizing the deal and saying it set a troubling precedent for other large companies.
“This kind of non-prosecution deal is unprecedented and obviously wrong for the deadliest corporate crime in U.S. history. My families will object and hope to convince the court to reject it,” said the families’ lawyer, Paul Cassell.
The Justice Department said relatives of more than 110 crash victims told the government they support the non-prosecution agreement or “support the Department’s efforts to resolve the case pre-trial more generally,” but added that others said they want the U.S. to take Boeing to trial and that they would litigate to dismiss the deal.
The aerospace giant reached a
settlement
in 2021 in the
final days
of the first Trump administration that shielded it from prosecution for three years.
Under that deal, Boeing agreed to pay a $2.51 billion fine to avoid prosecution. That included a $243.6 million criminal penalty, a $500 million fund for crash victims’ family members and $1.77 billion for its airline customers. The new fund will be on top of the $500 million that was already established.
That 2021 settlement was set to expire two days after a
door panel
blew out of a nearly new 737 Max 9 operated by
Alaska Airlines
on Jan. 5, 2024, after the aircraft left Boeing’s factory without key bolts installed.
But last year, U.S. prosecutors said Boeing violated the 2021 settlement, accusing the company of failing to set up and enforce a compliance and ethics program to detect violations of U.S. fraud laws.
Last July, toward the end of the Biden administration, Boeing
agreed to plead guilty
to the criminal fraud charge in a new settlement. A federal judge later rejected the plea deal, citing
concerns
with diversity, equity and inclusion requirements for choosing a corporate monitor.
Under that 2024 deal, Boeing would have faced a fine of up to $487.2 million, though the Justice Department recommended that the court credit Boeing with half that amount it paid under the previous agreement.
The U.S. had accused Boeing of conspiracy to defraud the government by
misleading regulators
about its inclusion of a flight-control system on the Max that was later implicated in the two
crashes
.
“Boeing’s employees chose the path of profit over candor by concealing material information from the FAA concerning the operation of its 737 Max airplane and engaging in an effort to cover up their deception,” then-acting Assistant Attorney General David Burns of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division said at the time of the 2021 deferred prosecution agreement.
Messages revealed in an investigation into the Max’s development showed the former top Boeing pilot who was found not guilty of fraud in 2022, Mark Forkner, told the FAA to delete the flight-control system known as MCAS from manuals and, in a separate email, he boasted about “jedi-mind tricking” regulators into approving the training material.
Lawyers for victims’ family members railed against last year’s preliminary plea deal, equating it to a slap on the wrist for the corporate giant, which recently won a
contract
worth billions to build the next-generation fighter jet and works on other military programs including outfitting two new
presidential jets
.
More from CNBC:
How big EU tariff could backfire on Trump, according to trade, freight experts
April home sales dropped to the slowest pace for that month since 2009
Why Trump’s iPhone tariff threat might not be enough to bring production to the U.S.
Leslie Josephs, CNBC
About
Contact
Help
Careers
Ad Choices
Privacy Policy
Your Privacy Choices
CA Notice
Terms of Service (Updated JULY 7, 2023)
NBC News Sitemap
Closed Captioning
Advertise
Select Shopping
© 2025 NBCUniversal Media, LLC
NBC News Logo
MSNBC Logo
Today Logo