Genius Amazon Savings Hack
Advertorial
Do This Before You Renew Amazon Prime
(It’s Genius)
Last Updated: December 2, 2024
By:
Olivia James
-
Bargain Shopper Extraordinaire
What if there was a way to
potentially find better deals—without paying for Prime?
Millions of Americans who have been holding off on online shopping due to inflation and rising prices are now discovering a
new way to shop.
A free browser tool is helping users uncover savings they might have otherwise missed, and it's quickly gaining popularity across the U.S.
Amazon and other retailers may need to rethink their pricing
as more shoppers use this tool to compare options before making a purchase.
Look, we love Amazon Prime
(that recently got increased to a whopping $179/year).
Free 2-day shipping is great and, like everyone else, we enjoyed not knowing how much it actually cost. Well, guess what? It isn’t free to move items from one location to another, and that cost gets baked into the price you pay.
The only thing you have to do is to add
Capital One Shopping
to your browser! It’s 100% free ​for everyone (no Capital One account required!) and works to find amazing deals, coupons, and price drops out there. And with ‘out there’ we mean searching far and wide across the web. The algorithm behind it is so strong that customers already refer to it as the “insane deals” browser extension.
The best thing is:
Everyone can use this trick to finally get real deals again!
Here’s how it works:
Example savings from 11/4/2024. Savings may vary.
The only thing you have to do is to add
Capital One Shopping
to your browser! It’s a free tool that works fast to find amazing hidden savings. If there’s a hidden deal, there’s a good chance this tool will find it, and find it quick. And with ‘out there’ we mean searching far and wide across the web. The algorithm behind it is so strong that customers already refer to it as the “insane deals” browser extension.
If a better offer is found for the product you’re about to shop, a notification will appear instantly.
Same product, just cheaper.
It shows you discounts you likely wouldn’t have found without it,  and even advises you to buy the product from another retailer where it’s priced lower! It’s like having a loyal team of personal shoppers at your disposal at any time!
But it gets even better.
When you link your email and visit other retailers, your inbox will deliver email-only savings that Amazon doesn’t offer. By spending seconds to link your email, you’ll get access to deals of up to 50% back at hundreds of retailers, reward tracking, and even price drop alerts.
You didn’t come here to save 1%. Link your email to unlock the rewards up to 50% off.
Last year
Capital One Shopping
saved its customers over $800 million, and you can install and set it up in seconds (and easily uninstall if you don’t like it) so there’s no reason not to give it a try right now.
The best part? It's
100% free
. Get Capital One Shopping
HERE
.
8,000,000+ users, Web Store
Add to Browser — It's free.
AS REVIEWED BY
Please see our
Privacy Policy
&
Terms and Conditions
. The third parties named are not affiliated with any brands we promote and are solely responsible for their product and services
. All trademarks are the property of their respective owners. Savings may vary. Sample results shown.
OnlineShoppingTools is an independent, advertising-supported service that offers consumer shopping advice. The offers or products that appear on OnlineShoppingTools are from third party advertisers or partners from which OnlineShoppingTools receives compensation. This compensation may impact how and where products appear on this site, including, for example, the order in which they are shown. Other factors, such as our proprietary website’s rules and the likelihood of applicants’ approval, impact how and where products appear on our site.
The compensation from our advertising partners allows OnlineShoppingTools to offer you free access to comparison tools and information. The offers listed on OnlineShoppingTools do not encompass the entire universe of products available from various merchants. Because offers change frequently, please visit merchant sites for current information.
Editorial Note: Our editorial team’s content is not provided or commissioned by any financial institution or partner. The opinions, reviews, or recommendations expressed in any article mentioned are solely those of our editorial team.